Hypertext Markup Language, or HTML,
is a language that defines the structure
of content on a web page.
Development started in 1989 at CERN
by Tim Berners Lee, who had just
invented the world's first web
browser, World Wide Web, the origin of WWW.
But he needed a publishing language
to display content within it.
So he chose a syntax based on the
Standard Generalized Markup Language, which
uses opening and closing tags to provide
meaning to otherwise unorganized
text like h for heading, p for paragraph,
and most importantly, a for anchor
to link to a different web page.
The language underwent many changes
during the initial rise of the Internet
and was standardized as HTML5 in 2008,
the version we know and love today.
Modern HTML contains tags to handle
a variety of different media types
like video, audio, and canvas.
To draw custom graphics on the fly.
The typical HTML element starts with
an opening and closing tag.
In the middle we have content, which
might be text or additional HTML
elements called children.
The opening tag may also have one or
more attributes which are key value
pairs that can customize the appearance
or behavior of the element.
To build your first web page, create
a file named index dot HTML.
This file contains A hierarchy of nodes
based on the Document Object Model or DOM.
A web page starts with an HTML tag
and has exactly two children, a head and a body.
The head contains things that aren't
directly shown in the web page, like
a title or a meta tag to give the page a description.
But notice how the meta element has no closing tag.
Closing tags are generally optional.
When an element is fully
self-contained, the body contains the actual UI.
For the end user.
We might start with an H1 heading
followed by a paragraph of content.
To add an image we use an image tag,
which you'll notice is self closing.
Then define the source attribute as
the file path to the image and you'll
want to give it an alt description
to make it accessible to robots and screen readers.
What makes web pages revolutionary,
though, is their ability to link to other
web pages on the information super highway.
Use an anchor tag to create a link,
then define the href attribute
as the webpage that you want to navigate to
when clicked.
HTML also provides structural tags
like division, or div.
Which are often used to group elements together,
where they can be styled to represent complex UI elements
like navbars.
When you're happy with your code,
grab the full file path to the HTML file
and paste into any web browser.
Congratulations, you just built your first website!
This has been HyperText Markup Language in 100 Seconds
Hit the subscribe button so you don't miss
the upcoming sequels.
Thanks for watching and I will see you in the next one.